= textserver

*textserver* is a daemon to notify changes of a text file via HTTP
long-polling. It enables Firefox to synchronize contents of textareas
or input elements with an external file. You will be able to edit
textareas on Firefox using an external text editor.

A guide in Japanese: http://d.hatena.ne.jp/tarao/20091105/1257463316

== How to use it

You need to have Firefox and Greasemonkey extension installed.

1. Run Firefox.

2. Install *textserver* daemon to your local machine. (see below)

3. Add <tt>retrieve-remote-text.user.js</tt> to your Greasemonkey.

4. Move focus on a textarea or an input.

5. Write something to +text+ file and save it.

6. You will get the textarea or the input synchronized with +text+ file.

== Installation

If you are using Windows, you can either install by the installer or
use Ruby command as in other platforms.

=== Using installer (Windows)

A demo on YouTube: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7eI12gmzv6Y

Get the installer of the latest package from
http://up.orezdnu.org/release/textserver.msi.

+text+ file will be accessible from your desktop (via a shortcut named
<tt>textarea</tt>) and <tt>retrieve-remote-text.user.js</tt> can
automatically be opened just after the setup.

=== How to run with source code (all platforms)

You need <b>Ruby 1.8.7</b> or later. After cloning the repository,
don't forget to do

  git submodule update --init
or install modules from http://github.com/tarao/gnn-rblibs.

1. Install Ruby modules listed below.

2. Make directory _dir_ for the daemon.

3. Write ':dir: <em>dir</em>' to a YAML file <em>config</em>.

4. Run the daemon with specifying _config_ like 'ruby textserver.rb -c <em>config</em>'.

You can stop the daemon by 'ruby textserver.rb -c <em>config</em> --stop'.

==== Linux
- <b>rubygems</b> (required)
- <b>gnn-rblibs</b> (required)
- <b>inotify</b> (recommended)

==== Windows
- <b>rubygems</b> (required)
- <b>gnn-rblibs</b> (required)
- <b>win32/api</b> (required)
- <b>win32/process</b> (required)
- <b>win32/ipc</b> (recommended)
- <b>win32/event</b> (recommended)
- <b>win32/changenotify</b> (recommended)

== Build installer on Windows

If you have all applications listed below, you can build the installer
by the following command.

  rake win32

- <b>Rake</b>
- <b>Exerb</b>
- <b>Windows Installer XML (WiX) toolset</b>
- <b>Microsoft Platform SDK</b>

== Advanced feature

If you are using <b>GNU Emacs</b>, try <tt>elisp/textarea.el</tt>. Put
this file some where in your load path and write the following code to
your <tt>.emacs</tt>.

  (require 'textarea)
  (setq textarea:dir "your-textserver-dir")

Then, 'M-x textarea' opens +text+ as <tt>\*textarea*</tt> buffer with
auto-save mode, 'M-x revert' on <tt>\*textarea*</tt> buffer retrieves
contents of the current textarea on the browser.
